---
layout: post
title:  "Dokrust"
author: "Shori"
comments: false
tags: Random
---

Dokrust is an (in fact, the first) open-source [project](https://github.com/lishpr/dokrust) that I am working on, and the namesake of this blog.

There are great, open-source options for full-fledged linux containers apps like Docker or Linux containers. I read about the wiring of containers in general (a summary can be found [here](https://lishpr.github.io/2021-01-04/How-Linux-Containers-Work)). But Docker and Linux containers are a hard read and too complicated to be disentangled for my use by myself.

In a day I came across [vas-quod](https://github.com/flouthoc/vas-quod). It claims to be a minimal container runtime. I checked into it and it completely matched the concepts I read about containers. And it's simple, only with a couple handred lines of code. 

Therefore, I decided to build upon it to achieve my goal.

I stitched "Docker", the well-known container app, and "Rust", the development language, together to make this name. I feel it sounds pretty cool, and that's that.

<br />

## Dokrust the runtime

Dokrust is currently under active development. I added a few new functionalities such as customizable hostname, CGroup isolation quota, directory mounting, and sustained interaction within the container.

```bash
Usage: ./dokrust [options] [-- <command> <argument>...]

Options:
    -r, --rootfs        Path to root file-system
                        default: --rootfs ../rootfs
    -c, --command       Command to be executed
                        eg. --command `curl http://google.com`
    -n, --hostname      Customize the name of your container
                        default: --hostname dokka
    -q, --quota         The quota of CGroup for your process
                        eg. --quota cpu:cpu.cfs_quota_us:50000
    -m, --mount         Mount directory to container
                        eg. --mount /root:/mnt
    -h, --help          Print this help menu
```

The full description and list of functionalities could be found [**here**](https://github.com/lishpr/dokrust). Go star me! Plsssss!

### What's on the roadmap?

I am currently investigating on container networking. It currently does not have network support. The Rust language is immature on the ip(8) system calls. But an update could be expected soon.

### What's the distant goal?

I kinda want this to be able to run Android apps. That means we need display support, probably graphics and OpenGL; networking support, which I am working on; and figure out a way to squeeze Android runtimes and binaries into Dokrust. idk, let's see.

<br />

## Dokrust the blog

Okay, as you may see, Dokrust the runtime has tons of technical issues yet to be solved or even touched. This brings a world of possibilities for the blog. I think the theme of the blog will be Dokrust the runtime for a while, and I am also open to write something about my life.

As time progresses and my focus shifts away from the development of Dokrust the runtime, I will find other technical topics to fuss about. And hopefully, I could attach "the runtime" or "the blog" to Dokrust less often (yeah this is kinda dumb).

Oh right, I want to take the time to thank the author of this wonderful Jekyll theme. The aesthetics is soooo appealling. Go star him if you feel the same. Link is in the footer.
